Saloon Python 3 Client
======================

This is the root of you AI. Stay out of the ``joueur/`` folder, it does
most of the heavy lifting to play on our game servers. Your AI, and the
game objects it manipulates are all in ``games/saloon/``, with your very
own AI living in ``games/saloon/ai.py`` for you to make smarter.

How to Run
----------

This client has been tested and confirmed to work on the Campus
rc##xcs213 Linux machines, but it can work on your own Windows/Linux/Mac
machines if you desire.

Linux
~~~~~

::

    ./testRun MyOwnGameSession

For Linux, a recent version of ``python3`` should work. It has been
tested on 3.4.3 extensively, but should work with >= 3.2. The normal
'python' usually refers to Python 2.7.X, so make sure you have the
python\ **3** installed.

Windows
~~~~~~~

On Windows you'll need some version of Python 3. As with the Linux
version,
`3.4.3 <https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-343/>`__ worked
fine. Install that and ensure that python is set up in your
Environmental Variables as 'python3', then

::

    python3 main.py Saloon -s r99acm.device.mst.edu -r MyOwnGameSession

Make
----

There is a ``Makefile`` provided, but it is empty as python is an
interpreted language. If you want to add ``make`` steps feel free to,
but you may want to check with an Arena dev to ensure the Arena has the
packages you need to use in ``make``.

Other Notes
-----------

It is possible that on your Missouri S&T S-Drive this client will not
run properly. This is not a fault with the client, but rather the
school's S-Drive implementation changing some file permissions during
run time. We cannot control this. Instead, we recommend cloning your
repo outside the S-Drive and use an SCP program like
`WinSCP <https://winscp.net/eng/download.php>`__ to edit the files in
Windows using whatever IDE you want if you want to code in Windows, but
compile in Linux.

The only file you should ever modify to create your AI is the ``ai.py``
file. All the other files are needed for the game to work. In addition,
you should never be creating your own instances of the Game's classes,
nor should you ever try to modify their variables. Instead, treat the
Game and its members as a read only structure that represents the game
state on the game server. You interact with it by calling the game
functions.
